# Land Use Land Cover(LULC) classification with Machine Learning (ML)
Identification of physical aspect of the earth’s surface (Land cover) as well as how we exploit the land (Land use) is a challenging problem in environment monitoring and many other subdomains. This can be achieved through field surveys or analyzing satellite based observations. Field survey is more comprehensive and authoritative, it is an expensive project and mostly takes a long time to update. Satellite observations provide a more feasible and efficient option due to their synoptic and repetitive coverage and offer several products at different spatial and temporal scales. ML algorithims have demonstrated promising results in land use categorization with recent breakthroughs in the space industry and the increased availability of remote sensing observations.

In this project, [USGS Landsat 8 Level 2, Collection 2, Tier 1](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/LANDSAT_LC08_C02_T1_L2) dataset has been used to collect the atmospherically corrected surface reflectance (SR) values. These SR images, after preprocessing, are used to derive different remote sensing indices such as NDVI, NDWI, NDBI, NDSI etc. Band [1-7] along with these remote sending indides are used as the predictor variable while the [European Space Agency (ESA) WorldCover 10 m 2020](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/ESA_WorldCover_v100) is used as the response variable.The dataset is accessed thorough [Google Earth Engine](https://earthengine.google.com/) (GEE) and prepared using [geemap](https://geemap.org/), a Python module for interactive mapping with GEE. 

Startified sampling is done to gather characteristics from the research area, which are then saved on the local computer for later analysis. 70% of the data is utilised for training, while the remainder is used for testing. A few well-known classification algorithms, such as Random Forest (RF), KNN, SVM, and others, are used for classification. Initial results showed that RF perfomed better than other selected ML algorithms. To assess the model's performance, K-fold cross validation was used. To increase model performance, feature importance was assessed, and hyperparameter adjustment was conducted.
